Cloud monitoring:
-----------------------
Cloud watch:
-----------------
It is a monitoring service for AWS cloud resources and apps you run on aws.
to set up metrics monitoring for every service in AWS.
You get alerts when things go wrong.
You can track metrices(var of a performancelogs),resource utilization,application performance and overall operational health.

Offers 2 types of monitoring:
1.Basic monitoring(free)polls every 5 mins
2.Detailed monitoring(Chargable)polls every  min


-->Records metrices for EBS,EC2,ELB and S3
-->It shows performance by cpu level(hypervisor level)


Events:Based on CM, we can create events(ex:trigger lambda fun)
Agents:Install agents on EC2 instances . This will send monitoring data(cloudwatch logs) of EC2 ins to cloud watch.
Agent is a hybrid. It works both on ec2 and on premises.
Alarms:Based on usage u can set alarms for actions.(If cpu utilization is too high,to shutdown instance,autoscaling etc)
The CloudWatch Alarms feature allows you to watch CloudWatch metrics and to receive notifications when the metrics fall outside of the levels (high or low thresholds) that you configure.



Event Bridge:
-------------------------
Formrly called as cloudwatch events
Fully managed
It is an event bus that helps in integrating diff apps.
By using it, we can create event driven architectures.
(Ex: U want to receive SNS notification everytime when EC2 ins are terminated.
2.Automated deployments using code pipeline ecryday at 11 pm


Different parts in Eventbridge:


Event producer-->Once event is generated it will put into event bus--->AWS event bridge event bus-->Rules(Inside bus there will be many rules and once rule is matched,then it further forwards to its targets)--->AWS lambda(trigger lambda fun),Kinesis,AWS SNS 
(aws services,custom apps,third party saas providers)
Single rule can have multiple targets(max targets :5)

Imp terms:
Event: Indicates a change in an environment
Rules:A rule matches incoming events and routes them to targets for processing
Targets:processes the evnts 
Event bus:Receives events. When you create a rule you associate it with a specific event bus and the rule is matched only to events received by that event Bus


CLOUD TRAIL:

--->Its a global service

It records and tracks all app programming interface requests in AWS account.
These requests can be initiated from SDKs, AWS CLI, console,another aws service
Example: If a person deletes an instance in aws and wants to know who deleted it ,we can see it in cloud trial as it have API call tracked and recorded.


Cloud trial events:
----------------------------
-->Every API request captured is recorded as an event.
-->Multiple events are recorded withtin cloud trial logs.
Events contain an array of associated meta data.
Ex:
Identity of the caller
Timestamp of the request
source of IP address

3 types of Cloud trial  events:
1.management--->can separate read evnets to write events
2.Data Events
3.Cloud trila insights events 
Cloud trial insights events (payable)
---------------------------------
It becomes difficult to understand unsual activity if we get multiple requests 
Detect unusual activity in your account.


Cloud Trail logs:
----------------------
Events are stored for 90 days in cloudtrial
Cloudtrail delivers log files to S3  
New log files are created in every 5 mins
Cloud trial log files can also be delivered to cloud watch logs for metric monitoring and altering via SNS

Management events---(Continuos analysis)--->Cloudtrail insights---------->(Generate)Insights events----(sent to)--->loud trail console,s3 bucket,eventvridge event

X-Ray:
---------
-->AWS xray collects apps requets data and helps developers analysze and debug
 produsction,microservices and identify issues and opportunities for optimization
-->Analyse and Debug applications using distributed tracing

Service health dashboard: sttaus of all aws services across all regions
personalhealth dashboard:aws events that impact your infra
AWS Personal Health Dashboard provides alerts and remediation guidance when AWS is experiencing events that may impact you.
Amazon code Guru: Automated code reviews using ML and apps performance recommendations









































