Global Application:
It is a application deployed in multiple geographies.(Region/Edge Locations)
Why need to deploy in multi geos?:
-->Decreased Latency:
Latency: It is the time takes for a network packet to reach the server.
Deploy your apps closer to users to Decreased Latency.(Ind and USA takes time,so deploy in asia and usa )
Disaster Recovery:If one region fails, other region still works
Attack Protection: Difficult for hackers to attack global infra.


Global Applications in AWS:
1.Global DNS:Route 53
2.Global Content Delivery Network(CDN):CloudFront
3.S3 Tranfer Acceleration
4.AWS Gloabl accelerator

Route 53:(DNS server in aws)
Route 53 features are (non exhaustive list): Domain Registration, DNS, Health Checks, Routing Policy
-->It is a managed Domain Name System
DNS:Collection of rules and records which helps clinets understand how to reach a server thru URLs.
DNS servers convert URLs and domain names into IP addresses that computers can understand and use.
EX: If someone types "example.com" into a web browser, a server behind the scenes maps that name to the corresponding 
IP address.
Most common records:
(If below site is mapped to IPV4 address the it is called A record)
www.google.com-->12.34.545.4==A record(IPV4)
www.google.com-->200:56457:8:4451:365326:5363256(Quadraple A record)AAAA Record
search.google.com-->www.google.com-->CNAME(hostname to hostname)
*ex.com-->aws resouce-->Alias(cloudfront,s3,elb...)

*Routing policies:
Except 1st one all have health chekcs
1.simple routing policy(No health checks)
2.weighted routing policy(we assign weights to servers and based on the weights, traffic will be assigned to the servers)
Weighted Routing Policy is used to route traffic to multiple resources in proportions that you specify
3.Latency Routing Policy(r53 is used to reduce the latency by assigning nearest locations)
4.FailOver routing policy(Based on health check it will connect)




Cloud Front:(216 POINT OF PRESENCE)
-->Uses Global edge network
It is a content delivery network(CDN)
-->Improves read performance, content is cached at the edge(edge caches-->.In global, moving memory storage closer to end users)
DDOS Protection--(servers in all over the world will get attacked at the same time)
To protect we use shield,aws web application firewall
services does CloudFront integrate to protect against web attacks( WAF web access control,AWS Shield )

Ex: If we have hosted our application in S3 (Australia)and we have user who wants to access s3(America) then cloud front 

Then user will request the content from from america by using cloudfront. Cloud front will fetch the 
content from australia.

what cloufront can cached from
s3
HTTP(Custom Origin)


How it works:
First if client wants to access s3
client (will send request to CF )---->CF(checks if the info is already there is cache, if not )-------->Forward request to the origin(s3) 



S3 Transfer Acceleration:
Goenerally s3 bucket transffer only by one region. 
But by using S3 TA, it can be transferred by all the regions.
Speeds up the transfer
How it works:
Files(USA)(fast public www)----->Edge Location(USA)(fast private www)------>S3(Australia)


AWS Glabal Accelerator:
Improves global application availability and performance using aws global network
aws region(USA)(public www)----->Edge Location(USA)(fast private www)------>aws region(Australia)


AWS ouposts:
server racks provides infrastructure same as in cloud to on premises

Wavelength-->5G
AWS Wavelength is an AWS Infrastructure offering optimized for mobile edge computing applications. Wavelength combines the high bandwidth and 
ultra-low latency of 5G networks with AWS compute and storage services to enable developers to innovate and build a whole new class of applications.
Local zones-->extend your vpc to more locations(aws region:N.Virginia)---->can be extended to local zones(boston,chicago..)
Global architecture:
1.Single region, single AZ
2.Single region, multi az
3.multi region active-passive
4.multi region active-active













